# Face-Recognition-Attendance-Project
This is a Python code project for Face Recognition Attendance. The system has been designed for purposes of conducting attendance for staff in an organization or even students in a learning institution. It can also be integrated in work-from-home setting or e-learning basis via the use of a native application.
The project contains ceveral libraries inclusive of pyplot lib, cvzone, face_recognition and numpy that have been integrated in the program, each playing a particular role to ensure a successful face recognition system
Numpy library is used to operate with numerical value; in this case, encoding generated by the program for all trian images stored in the database, to be match with encoding generated when an individual approaches the camera for the face matching. 
Face_recognition library is used to help the system match the faces in the database and face of individuals approaching the camera to identify them. 
Cvzone is a computer vision package that makes it easier to run Image processing and Artificial intelligence functions, in this case identify faces of individuals automatically.
This project currently runs on firebase database and storage. Storage holds images used to match individuals (train images). Also contained in storage in a CSV file that contains records of all user attendance. The database provides an interface where records of attendance are recorded and updated whenever a user signs in or out of the system. 
The system operates by first loading encoded files from train images in storage into the main program. The encoding consists individual details; facial encodings, name, ID, occupation(title in an organization), last attendance time in and last attendance time out. 
Once an individual already recorded in the database approaches the camera, their real-time face identification generated encodings are matched with the already loaded storage endoding to match each individual. The system then automatically records the individuals attendance-in. The same applies for when the exit the firm or institution. 
The system uses HOG algorithm, CNN and other algorithms to ensure accuracy in identifying and matching individual on the face-identification stage. 
Recomendation: The system can be implemented at entry and exit stations into an office, organization or learning institutions and can be used to control access and attendance of authorised individuals. 
